in Los Angeles most of the rainwater
that falls on rooftops parking lots and
sidewalks is sent into the street storm
drains and to the ocean
not only do earthen surfaces seal the
land and prevent water from seeping into
the ground but along the way water
runoff also picks up pollutants trash
fertilizers and pesticides this liquid
waste is the single largest source of
water pollution into the ocean giving
Los Angeles some of the most polluted
beaches in California every Wednesday
morning students from Santa Monica High
School collect water samples at the Pico
counter storm drain one of many urban
runoffs responsible for pouring more
than 100 million gallons of contaminated
water into the ocean each day Santa
Monica High School and Surfrider
Foundation teamed up to create teach and
test a program aimed at raising
awareness of water quality issues at the
Los Angeles beaches in Santa Monica Bay
there's about 200 storm drains and it
spans 65 70 miles of coastline we're
just recording our data results on what
we see in the storm drain and most
importantly know what the color is and
what the smell is because if there's a
particular smell that could be
potentially dangerous after the rainfall
there's a lot of water that comes from
the storm drains this actually goes out
into the ocean and that's when it's the
most dangerous to the ocean and that's
when you don't want to swim in the ocean
at all and do you actually see can you
visually see more trash after it rains
oh yeah you can see trash building up in
the water not only in the water ball so
around the whole storm drain area oil
spills plastic debris so from when you
wash your car in the street fertilizers
for what people water their lawns
everything that is on the street ends up
here in our oceans
when fertilizers enter our ocean you can
trigger red tides or the bacteria where
the bacteria and the algae just go crazy
off the nutrients and then this can lead
to dead zones in our Bay which can kill
off the fish in the life usually we
have a stagnant pool of water when there
is a sandbar here on the beach but of
course the the expensive hotels don't
want their guests to be seeing a
stagnant pool of pollutants so what they
do is they scour a groove in the sandbar
which allows the water to flow from the
pool out into the ocean when we got here
there's no flow but right now after the
guy in the truck just opened up the
channel there's a lot of flow so now the
ocean right there is going to be
unlivable there's gonna be lots of
pollutants and it'll be unsafe this
woman we label all of our bags so when
we go back to the lab we can test it
correctly the water samples were left in
the incubator for 24 hours so that
bacteria can use the protein that would
give them into the food so that we can
recognize if there was or was not
bacteria in the sample the ones that are
blue were the ones that have the
bacterial colonies our population in
them and the ones that are not blue are
the ones without bacteria and so you
determine whether or not it's safe to
swim in by how many are blue versus how
many are not blue there's a lot of
bacteria in this sample which is from
pee cocaine or storm drain which is the
one that we we're at yesterday the
bacteria levels at the beach next to pee
O'Connor storm drain are at 109 this
means that you shouldn't be getting into
of the water and the city is has to put
out an advisory because it's not safe
this would definitely be an F it's not a
- this indicates that other
microorganisms and viruses are present
in the ocean water which can lead to
intestinal diseases it can lead to
throwing up vomiting the stomach flu
don't go swimming in this area the best
solution is stopping it in the first
place you can't just do like a temporary
fix you can just put a big net out
and try to pick up trash because it's
people that have to change not we can't
just put a band-aid over what we've done
we should use more drought resistant
plants and plants that don't require as
much water so we don't have to wash them
as much or use as much fertilizer for
them and one of the most important
things we can do is conserve water and
you can do this by installing a cistern
or a water catchment system in your home
to collect the rainwater that naturally
provides water for us and by doing this
you can not only save money on your
water bill but you can save our oceans
and our beaches we weekly post the data
on the Surfrider website it's also on
the heel of a surf rider club org
website and it will soon be on jane
goodall's Roots & Shoots website